Abstract: 

In recent years, quantum image computing draws a lot of attention due to storing and processing image data faster compared to classical computers. A number of approaches have been proposed to represent the quantum image inside a quantum computer. Representing and compressing medium and big-size images inside the quantum computer is still challenging. To address this issue, we have proposed a block-wise DCT-EFRQI (Direct Cosine Transform Efficient Flexible Representation of Quantum Image) approach to represent and compress the gray-scale image efficiently to save computational time and reduce the quantum bits (qubits) for the state preparation. In this work, we have demonstrated the capability of block-wise DCT and DWT transformation inside the quantum domain to investigate their relative performances. The Quirk simulation tool is used to design the corresponding quantum image circuit. In the proposed DCT-EFRQI approach, a total of 17 qubits are used to represent the coefficients, the connection between coefficients and state (i.e., auxiliary), and their position for representing and compressing grayscale images inside a quantum computer. Among those, 8 qubits are used to map the coefficient values and the rest are used to generate the corresponding coefficient XY-coordinate position including one auxiliary qubit.  Theoretical analysis and experimental results show that the proposed DCT-EFRQI scheme provides better representation and compression compared to DCT-GQIR, DWT-GQIR, and DWT-EFRQI in terms of rate-distortion performance.

Paper link: https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-023-30575-2
